---
title: Joshua 10:16-10:43 - Joshua's Triumphant Conquest
# YYYY-MM-DD
date: 2025-12-21
author: James Orson
tags:
   - Joshua
---

1. Joshua has just experienced God's miraculous extension of daylight, enabling the initial rout of the Amorite coalition, and thus begins the great conquest that God enables for Israel.
1. We can see this passage as a picture of Christ's ultimate conquest, where God will place all of Christ's enemies in subjection under His feet.
   1. Joshua is a type of Christ here, having his chiefs of war place their feet on the necks of the Amorite kings, before executing them and hanging them from trees.
   1. Joshua is sure to do this lawfully as laid out in Deuteronomy 21:22-23, where the shameful display of a man hung on a tree would not be left overnight, but must be hung and buried the same day.
   1. Not only did they do this to be sure the land would not be polluted, but it again shows Joshua as a conqueror who cared for the law of God, as can be said about Christ as well.
     1. Joshua is an obedient leader, careful to fulfill covenant promises with his leadership.
     1. Christ is an obedient leader, careful to fulfill covenant promises with his leadership.
   1. And in all of this, God was the one fighting for Israel. Those He claims as His people are both protected and honored as conquerors for His glorious purposes.
1. All in all, Joshua's conquest foreshadows Christ's ultimate conquest, subjugating all enemies under His feet through obedient, undefiling victory, assuring believers that God has fought our battles, and has faithfully secured our inheritance in Him.
