---
title: Acts 16:16-40 - Paul and Silas in prison
# YYYY-MM-DD
date: 2025-08-10
author: James Orson
tags:
  - Acts
---

1. *Theme*
   1. *Keep the gospel upon your lips and be known for being steeped in it, so you can serve those who respond to the call.*
   1. In Acts 16:16-40, we see Paul and Silas in Philippi, continuing their missionary work. As they head to the place of prayer, a possessed slave girl follows them, proclaiming that, "These men are servants of the Most High God". Once Paul casts out the demon within the girl, he and Silas both are thrown in jail by complaint of the servant girl's greedy parents.
   1. Paul and Silas don't despair while in prison, but rather pray and sing hymns to God, with the other prisoners and the jailer required to listen.
   1. When an earthquake shakes the prison, opens the doors, and loosens their chains, the jailer, in a panic, decides he must kill himself. However, Paul shouts for him and stays his hand.
   1. Once he retrieves Paul and Silas, the jailer asks, "What must I do to be saved?"
   1. Likely, the reason the jailer knew that this was the message Paul and Silas was because of their refusal to stay silent, desiring instead to praise God while in the darkness of the dungeon.
   1. Paul and Silas, even in suffering, overflowed with worship and a readiness to share Christ.
   1. For us, this means living so saturated in the gospel that it's our reflex, whether in trials or conversations. When we're known for our faith, we are more ready to serve those God calls, like the jailer, who respond to His grace.
