---
title: Acts 3:1-4:31 - Peter and John preach the gospel in the temple
# YYYY-MM-DD
date: 2025-05-25
author: James Orson
tags:
  - Acts
---

1. As Peter and John begin to enter the temple, they are encountered by a lame beggar, sitting in the gate to enter the temple grounds.
1. We see Peter not offer to this man what he begged for, but instead he told the man to rise up and walk, lifting the man up, demonstrating Peter's own faith in the power given to the apostles by the Lord Jesus.
1. Peter and John had come to the temple not to participate in the sacrifices, but to preach Christ crucified and risen from the grave, and so the testimony of this lame beggar's healing provided the apostles a visible testimony to the power of Christ to create and heal.
1. As the people gather around the apostles and this beggar, the crowd recognizes the healed man as the man that would ask for alms at the gate.
1. Peter directs their astonishment away from the three of them, and points them to the Lord Jesus, reminding them of what they had done to the "Author of life". That they had crucified Him.
1. Yet Christ was raised from the dead to fulfill what they had heard in the prophets: to offer salvation to those who would repent, and to remind them of the promise of God to Abraham that "all the families of the earth shall be blessed", not only the Jews.
1. The two apostles are taken captive for the night, providing them another opportunity to proclaim the gospel, but now to the high priest and his family.
1. They again point the people to the finished work of Christ, reminding them of what Christ had quoted from Psalm 118, that He was the cornerstone that had been rejected, for now the kingdom of God was to be given to "a people who will produce fruit"; the church found among "all families of the earth".
1. Peter and John did not hesitate to proclaim the gospel with boldness, clarity, and impartiality. Due to the gospel's unique ability to save, we have solid grounds for boldness, for the gospel is THE truth. We are not the source of this boldness, as we see the apostles pray here for more boldness, we are to pray to God for this boldness, knowing that He will give generously to us when we ask.
1. We are called to step beyond our own fears or reluctance and proclaim the gospel, so that those with ears to hear may hear, and respond with a penitent heart.*
