---
title: Acts 21:1-36 - Paul's Arrival in Jerusalem
# YYYY-MM-DD
date: 2025-09-14
author: James Orson
tags:
  - Acts
---

1. *Theme*
   1. *Paul's willingness to suffer for the gospel is rooted in his confidence in God's sovereignty and the importance of the gospel being preached*
   1. *Paul's observance of Jewish traditions gives an extreme example of what it is like to do what we can to preserve unity with a weaker brother (Romans 14\)*
   1. We see through the passage the lengths which Paul was willing to go to preserve unity with the weaker Jewish brethren.
   1. Despite receiving warnings from the disciples in Tyre and Caesarea that he would be treated harshly if he returned to Jerusalem, he pressed on to Jerusalem.
   1. When Agabus affirms the Spirit's revelation that Paul would be bound by the Jews, Paul makes sure the disciples understand that it is necessary that he be willing to endure imprisonment, and even death, for the sake of the Gospel
      1. Paul's resolve isn't stubbornness,
      1. but rather a deep trust in God's sovereignty and a proper recognition of the worth of the gospel.
   1. Upon arriving in Jerusalem, Paul learns of some Jewish believers who are concerned with the teachings he gives that the ceremonial law of Moses does not bind the Christian.
      1. They seem to understand that this is true of the Gentile believer, as they recite the commands given in Acts 15 as sufficient
      1. But they ask that Paul participate in a  Nazarite vow with them to show the Jews of Jerusalem that Paul did respect the law
        1. John Calvin articulates well that these men were "to be reckoned among the faithful, yet their vow was superstitious"
        1. So we may ask, why does Paul participate, and was he sinning to do so? Again, Calvin provides some clarity
           1. "But because the end thereof was thanksgiving, (as we said before in the eighteenth chapter) and there was nothing in the rite itself repugnant to the faith of Christ, Paul did not doubt to descend thus far to make his religion known"
           1. "But it was neither his intent to worship God with this rite, neither was his conscience tied, but he did freely submit himself to his weak brethren"
           1. Tl;dr There was nothing inherently sinful in performing the vow, and Paul's own heart in the matter was to submit to the weaker brother.
   1. Despite his efforts, the Jews accuse Paul of defiling the temple by allowing Gentiles within, resulting in Paul's arrest by the Jews.
   1. Paul's unwavering resolve to suffer for the gospel and his humble submission to weaker Jewish brethren, reflects his commitment to unity, urging us to proclaim Christ boldly while sacrificially loving others.
