---
title: Acts 27:1-28:10 - Paul is Shipwrecked and Arrives at Malta
# YYYY-MM-DD
date: 2025-10-12
author: James Orson
tags:
  - Acts
---

1. Paul has appealed to Caesar through Porcius Festus, and is now in transit to Rome to presumably move his case up the appellate chain.
1. In this passage, it is clear that these are some of the many events that Luke was physically present for, and so the testimony we receive in these chapters is first-hand and explains why we receive such extraordinary detail about the ship journey and the overall experience of the stormy Noreaster.
1. Many of the details Luke includes are to show us how foolish the timing of the journey had been:
   1. For if this journey had occurred at the right time, the winds would have taken them above Cyprus and Crete, rather than below both.
   1. The ship of Alexandria was a large and slow trade ship, which again put them at greater risk of encountering the storm that would destroy the ship.
   1. They left from the harbor in Crete too late for safe travel, as Luke notes, it was past the fast, referring to the day of atonement. This puts the time sometime in September or October.
1. Once their mistake was clearly known, Luke is determined to recount to us Paul's resolute leadership on the ship, notably leading even his own captors to act rightfully by the Lord in following Paul's commands in the storm.
1. Once all of the passengers arrive safely to Malta, by God's providence, we are made witness to a scene famous among the modern "snake handling Christians", where Paul is bit by a venomous snake.
   1. He not only experiences no ill effects from the snake, but the Maltans believe him to be a God.
   1. It is here that Paul provides for us an example of how to rightly call for miracles to be done, by appealing not to any special power given to us, but by appealing to God Himself to do the work.
1. Luke has shown us how God is faithful to the work He promises for us to do, that He is more powerful than the greatest storm, and that He is gracious to answer the lawful pleas of His people, when they desire to give Him the glory alone.
