---
title: Acts 25-26 - Paul before Festus, Herod, and Bernice
# YYYY-MM-DD
date: 2025-10-05
author: James Orson
tags:
  - Acts
---

1. Felix had kept Paul in jail, hoping to receive a bribe from Paul, and to gain favor from the Jews. He kept Paul in prison until he was succeeded by Festus.
1. As the Jewish leaders continued to plot against Paul, Festus was concerned with pleasing them as Felix had also been.
   1. When a new leader comes in, he often wishes to please those under his rule and grant them something they desire, even if they do not deserve it.
   1. For example, we see that Festus is aware that Felix found there to be no charge to bring upon Paul, yet he still goes forth with having a trial to judge Paul.
1. In trial, we see Paul appeal higher in two ways:
   1. Paul has continually been appealing to God every time he goes to trial, showing repeatedly that he is above reproach in moral character, and that God is the true judge of man.
   1. And secondly, and unique to this trial, Paul appeals to Caesar through the lower magistrates of the region, so that he may "testify in Rome" as Christ instructed him and escape the corrupt politics of the leaders he is being held by.
     1. Paul appealed before three important figures: Porcius Festus (Roman governor of Judea), Herod Agrippa II (Last king of Judea) and Bernice (Herod's sister, who according to historical record had an affair with the Roman emperor who would destroy the temple in 70 AD)
     1. It was God's providence that Paul was able to give his testimony of conversion before the king of Judea, for he could be confident that his arguments would be well-understood by the political king of the Jews.
1. The presence of Herod helps Paul to gain credibility before Festus that he has done nothing wrong, even though the testimony fails to convert any present.
1. Paul's appeal to Caesar and testimony should encourage us to trust divine plans over earthly politics, and use everything at our disposal to do the will of God.
