---
title: Acts 15:36-16:15 - Second Missionary Journey
# YYYY-MM-DD
date: 2025-08-03
author: James Orson
tags:
  - Acts
---

1. *Theme*
   1. *God can utilize conflict and disagreement to His own glory*
   1. *The proper response once one's heart is opened to Christ is to partake in the ordinance of baptism*
   1. In this passage, Luke continues to chronicle the early church's expansion, now introducing the second missionary journey.
   1. Paul and Barnabas propose revisiting the churches they planted, to encourage them and to teach the decisions present in the letter from the Jerusalem Council.
   1. But a sharp disagreement arises between Paul and Barnabas over John Mark, who had deserted them earlier in Pamphylia, in Acts 13\. Barnabas desires to give him another opportunity, while Paul disagrees.
   1. The apostles are unable to come to agreement, so they part ways, with Barnabas taking along John Mark to Cyprus, and Paul is provided Silas to accompany him through Syria and Cilicia.
   1. What seems like a fracture in fellowship becomes a divine multiplication. God uses this conflict to double the missionary efforts.
   1. God, in His sovereignty, can utilize conflict and disagreement for His glory, turning potential division into broader kingdom impact. Disputes in ministry, if handled with grace, can propel us into new opportunities rather than divide us.
   1. Along the way, Paul enlists Timothy who would go on to be a kind of successor to Paul's ministry, and they have success in delivering the council's letters, witnessing the churches grow stronger in faith and number.
   1. While in Philippi they spoke to a group of women, which included Lydia. As Paul preaches, the Lord opens Lydia's heart to receive the gospel and she and her household are baptized upon profession of faith.
   1. Let Lydia's swift obedience and hospitality serve as an example for us of faith in action.
